Limited quantity $S_0$ of infinitely lived cake. DM that lived infinite periods. What is the optimum consumption amount. The [[Utility]] from eating cake is given by $$u(c_t)$$where $t$ is the period. The cake is consumed according to the equation of motion:$$S_t=S_{t-1}-c_t$$This is the constraint of the problem. The utility, in period 0 from consumption is given by $$u(c_0)+\beta u(c_1)+\beta^2u(c_2)+.....$$$$=\sum_{t=0}^\infty \beta^tu(c_t)$$The overall problem is represented by $$\text{max}_c \sum_{t=0}^\infty \beta^tu(c_t)\text{ w.r.t. }S_t=S_{t-1}-c_t$$Using a lagrangian,
$$\mathcal{L}=\sum_{t=0}^\infty \beta^tu(c_t)+\lambda[S_0-c_1-c_2-c_3-....]$$$$\frac{\partial \mathcal{L}}{\partial c_0}=u'(c_0)-\lambda=0$$$$\frac{\partial \mathcal{L}}{\partial c_1}=\beta u'(c_1)-\lambda=0$$and so on for all $c$ values. Equating for lambda,$$u'(c_0)=\beta u'(c_1)$$extrapolating this result,$$u'(c_t)=\beta u'(c_{t+1})$$We can assume that $S_{\infty}\to 0$, $\sum_{t=0}^\infty c_t=S_0$ as the cake will be fully consumed at some point in infinity. If the utility function is $u(c_t)=\ln c_t$
$$S_0=c_0+c_1+.....$$$$S_0=c_0(1+\beta+\beta^2+\beta^3+.....)$$$$=c_0(\sum_{t=0}^\infty \beta^t)$$As $\beta<1$ as it is the discount rate, can use a GP sum for a converging series$$=c_0(\frac{1}{1-\beta})$$$$S_0(1-\beta)=c_0^*$$This is the optimal level of first period consumption. We also know that $$S_1=S_0-c_1$$$$S_1=S_0-(1-\beta)S_0$$$$S_1=\beta S_0$$
#### Solution using bellman equation
A different representation of the problem using value functions. The bellman equation for this problem is $$V(s)=\text{max}_c u(c)+\beta V(s')\text{ s.t. } s'=s-c$$This converts an infinite horizon time problem into a two period optimization problem where $c$ is consumption today and $c'$ is consumption in the next period. Including the constraint into the equation$$V(s)=\text{max}_{s'}u(s-s')+\beta V(s')$$$$\frac{\partial V}{\partial s'}=-u(s-s')+\beta V'(s')=0$$$$\beta V'(s')=u'(s-s')$$$$u'(c^*)=\beta V'(s'^*)$$$$\frac{\partial V}{\partial s}=u'(s-s')=0$$$$V'(s)=u'(s-s')$$Replacing this in the initial bellman equation $$u'(c^*)=\beta u'(s'-s'')$$Which is the same result as the lagrangian. Using the $V'(s)$ value, we can get a complete bellman equation (replace V(S) in the equation) $$V(S_x)=\sum_{t=x}^\infty \beta^tu(c_t^*)$$provided that the earlier consumption path has been the optimal consumption path