This model adapts the [[Romer model]] to countries that are not at the technological frontier. As they do not have resources to spare for it, there is no R&D done, only one type of labour. 

The total technology available is also lower. $h$ is the level of capital goods in this economy, where $h\le A$ of the technologicaly advanced countries. This is lower as the labour cannot effectively use the entire A, the skill level is lower. The new final goods production function is therefore given as $$Y=L^{1-\alpha}\int_0^h x_j^\alpha d_j$$From the romer model, we know that $x_j=x$ for all $j$. Therefore, the total amount of capital in the economy is $$K=\int_0^h x_jd_j=hx$$$$x=\frac Kh$$Substituting this into the final production function,$$Y=L^{1-\alpha}\int_0^h(\frac Kh)^\alpha d_j$$$$=L^{1-\alpha}(\frac Kh)^\alpha h$$$$Y=K^\alpha(hL)^{1-\alpha}$$In per worker terms,$$y=k^\alpha h^{1-\alpha}$$$$\frac{\dot y}y=\alpha\frac{\dot k}k+(1-\alpha)\frac{\dot h}h$$We know capital accumulates via $\dot K=sY-\delta K$. In per worker terms, the growth rate of capital will be equal to the growth rate of capital per worker in the [[Solow model]]. Along the balanced growth path, we know that $Y$ and $K$ grow at the same rate. Therefore if $\dot y/y=\dot k/k=g$
$$g=\alpha g+(1-\alpha)\frac{\dot h}h$$$$\frac{\dot h}h=g$$This means that the growth of $y$ is driven by the growth in $h$. $h$ evolves according to $$\dot h=\mu e^{\psi u}A^\gamma h^{1-\gamma}$$Where:
- $e^{\psi u}$ is from the [[Solow model  with human capital]].
- $\mu$ captures the barriers to [[technology transfer]]. In the real world technology cannot move from country to country at no cost due to patents, copyright, etc.

Dividing by $h$,$$\frac{\dot h}h=\mu e^{\psi u}(\frac Ah)^\gamma$$Along the balanced growth path, $A$ must grow at the same rate of $h$ as $\dot h/h$ is constant. Therefore,$$\frac{\dot A}A=\frac{\dot h}h$$If $A=g_A$,$$\frac{\dot h}h=g_A$$This means that in the steady state, the growth rate of h is the same as A. However, as the discrepancy between $h$ and $A$ is higher, $\dot h/h$ is higher. (can be seen by the formula earlier). Using the derivation from the [[Solow model-with technology]], in the steady state,$$y=h(\frac{s}{\delta+n+g})^{\alpha/(1+\alpha)}$$This shows that $h$ does not have a long run effect on $y$, only a level effect on the growth. We know that $$\frac{\dot h}h=\mu e^{\psi u}(\frac Ah)^\gamma=g$$along the balanced growth path. Substituting and putting this into the steady state equation$$y=A(\frac \mu ge^{\psi u})^{1/\gamma}(\frac{s}{\delta+n+g})^{\alpha/(1+\alpha)}$$This shows tha $y$ even in countries not at the technological frontier, is determined by $A$. The further away the country is from the steady state, the further the growth rate is from $g$. At the steady state, $A$ and $h$ grow at the same rate.